.Dd March 8, 2026
.Dt SNAPPY 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm snappy
.Nd automatically increase your Time Machine snapshot frequency
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Nm
.Ar command
.Op Fl -json
.Op Fl -config Ar path
.Nm
.Cm service
.Ar subcommand
.Op Fl -config Ar path
.Nm
.Cm config
.Op Cm init
.Op Fl -config Ar path
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
uses macOS APFS snapshots to create frequent, automatic, lightweight backups
of your entire drive.
By default it takes a complete snapshot every 60 seconds, then thins older
snapshots to 5-minute intervals after 10 minutes.
macOS Time Machine further reduces the frequency to hourly after 1 hour,
daily after 1 day, and weekly after 1 week.
.Pp
Running
.Nm
with no arguments launches an interactive terminal UI
.Pq TUI .
Subcommands are available for non-interactive use and scripting.
.Pp
.Nm
requires macOS with APFS and
.Xr tmutil 8 .
.Sh COMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width "service uninstall"
.It Cm create Op Fl -json
Create a new local Time Machine snapshot and print the snapshot date.
.It Cm list Op Fl -json
List all local snapshots with timestamps, relative ages, and APFS details
.Pq UUID, XID delta, purgeable status .
Snapshots are displayed newest first.
.It Cm status Op Fl -json
Show Time Machine status, mount point, APFS volume, disk usage, snapshot
counts, and auto-snapshot configuration.
.It Cm thin Op Fl -json
Thin old snapshots.
Snapshots older than
.Va thin_age_threshold
are reduced to one per
.Va thin_cadence
interval.
Uses values from the configuration.
.It Cm run
Run the auto-snapshot loop as a foreground process.
This is the command the background service executes; you generally do not
need to run it directly.
Creates a snapshot and thins old ones on each configured interval, logging
to both stdout and the shared log file.
Acquires a file lock to prevent duplicate auto-snapshot processes.
Exits cleanly on
.Dv SIGINT
or
.Dv SIGTERM .
.It Cm config
Show the active configuration, including values from the config file,
environment variables, and defaults.
.It Cm config init
Create a default config file with all settings and comments.
Writes to
.Pa ~/.config/snappy/config.yaml
or the path given by
.Fl -config .
Will not overwrite an existing file.
.It Cm service
Show the status of the background service.
This is the default when no subcommand is given.
.It Cm service install
Install and start the snappy launchd agent.
Generates a launchd plist, loads it, and starts the service immediately.
Only needs to be run once.
.It Cm service uninstall
Stop and remove the snappy launchd agent.
.It Cm service start
Start a stopped service.
No-op if already running.
.It Cm service stop
Stop the running service.
No-op if already stopped.
.It Cm service status
Show the status of the snappy launchd agent, including the label, binary
path, plist path, running state, PID, and log path.
.It Cm service log
Tail the service log file.
Press
.Ql Ctrl-C
to exit.
.It Cm version
Print the version number.
.It Cm help Op Ar command
Show help for any command.
.El
.Sh GLOBAL OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width "--config path"
.It Fl -config Ar path
Path to the configuration file.
Default:
.Pa ~/.config/snappy/config.yaml .
.It Fl h , Fl -help
Show help for the current command.
.It Fl v , Fl -version
Print the version number and exit.
.El
.Sh INTERACTIVE MODE
Running
.Nm
with no arguments launches the TUI.
The interface has three panels:
.Bl -tag -width "Snapshot"
.It Info
Volume name, disk usage, Time Machine status, and auto-snapshot settings.
.It Snapshot
Scrollable table of local snapshots with date, age, XID, delta, UUID,
and purgeable status.
.It Log
Live activity log showing creates, thins, refreshes, and errors.
.El
.Ss Key Bindings
.Bl -tag -width "Shift+Tab" -compact
.It Ql s
Create a snapshot.
.It Ql r
Refresh the snapshot list.
.It Ql a
Toggle auto-snapshots.
.It Ql l
Open the log directory in Finder.
.It Ql Tab
Focus the next panel.
.It Ql Shift+Tab
Focus the previous panel.
.It Ql j / Down
Scroll down.
.It Ql k / Up
Scroll up.
.It Ql q / Ctrl-C
Quit.
.El
.Pp
Mouse support is available: click to focus panels, scroll with the mouse
wheel.
.Sh CONFIGURATION
.Nm
reads configuration from a YAML file, environment variables, and built-in
defaults, in that order of precedence.
Run
.Ql snappy config init
to create a default config file, and
.Ql snappy config
to view the active settings.
.Pp
Duration values accept Go duration strings
.Pq e.g., Dq 60s , Dq 2m
or plain seconds
.Pq e.g., Dq 60 .
.Bl -tag -width "auto_snapshot_interval"
.It Va auto_enabled
Enable auto-snapshots at startup.
Default:
.Dq true .
.It Va auto_snapshot_interval
Interval between automatic snapshots.
Default:
.Dq 60s .
.It Va log_dir
Directory for log files.
Default:
.Pa ~/.local/share/snappy .
.It Va log_max_files
Number of rotated backup log files to keep.
Default:
.Dq 3 .
.It Va log_max_size
Maximum log file size in bytes before rotation.
Default:
.Dq 5242880
.Pq 5 MB .
.It Va refresh
How often to refresh the snapshot list in the TUI.
Default:
.Dq 60s .
.It Va thin_age_threshold
Age after which snapshots become candidates for thinning.
Default:
.Dq 600s
.Pq 10 minutes .
.It Va thin_cadence
Minimum time gap to preserve between snapshots when thinning.
Default:
.Dq 300s
.Pq 5 minutes .
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
All configuration settings can be overridden with environment variables
prefixed with
.Ev SNAPPY_ .
For example:
.Bl -tag -width "SNAPPY_AUTO_SNAPSHOT_INTERVAL"
.It Ev SNAPPY_AUTO_ENABLED
Override
.Va auto_enabled .
.It Ev SNAPPY_AUTO_SNAPSHOT_INTERVAL
Override
.Va auto_snapshot_interval .
.It Ev SNAPPY_LOG_DIR
Override
.Va log_dir .
.It Ev SNAPPY_LOG_MAX_FILES
Override
.Va log_max_files .
.It Ev SNAPPY_LOG_MAX_SIZE
Override
.Va log_max_size .
.It Ev SNAPPY_REFRESH
Override
.Va refresh .
.It Ev SNAPPY_THIN_AGE_THRESHOLD
Override
.Va thin_age_threshold .
.It Ev SNAPPY_THIN_CADENCE
Override
.Va thin_cadence .
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "~/.local/share/snappy/snappy-service.log"
.It Pa ~/.config/snappy/config.yaml
Default configuration file.
.It Pa ~/Library/LaunchAgents/com.cboone.snappy.plist
Launchd agent property list, created by
.Cm service install .
.It Pa ~/.local/share/snappy/snappy.log
Shared log file used by both the TUI and the background service.
.It Pa ~/.local/share/snappy/snappy-service.log
Service stdout/stderr log, captured by launchd.
.It Pa ~/.local/share/snappy/snappy.lock
Lock file used to prevent duplicate auto-snapshot processes.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
Install and start the background service:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
snappy service install
.Ed
.Pp
Create a manual snapshot:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
snappy create
.Ed
.Pp
List snapshots as JSON:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
snappy list --json
.Ed
.Pp
Check system and snapshot status:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
snappy status
.Ed
.Pp
Thin old snapshots:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
snappy thin
.Ed
.Pp
Use a custom config file:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
snappy --config /path/to/config.yaml status
.Ed
.Pp
Tail the service log:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
snappy service log
.Ed
.Pp
Generate a default config file:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
snappy config init
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr launchctl 1 ,
.Xr asr 8 ,
.Xr diskutil 8 ,
.Xr tmutil 8
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Christopher Boone
.Sh BUGS
Report bugs at
.Lk https://github.com/cboone/snappy/issues .
